bili feedback (#37)
RHsyseng/telco-operations: assisted-installer/bili/README.md

# **Deploying an OpenShift Cluster using BILI workflow**

This document provides a first view at deploying a cluster using bili workflow, which is a subcommand for openshift-install that will generate a custom iso for installing openshift from a set of ZTP-like manifests and in a unattended fashion.

## **Worklow**

### **Requisites**

#### **Packages**

> The openshift-install build with agent support needs to be used. In the future, this will be part of the regular install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A special openshift-install binary built with agent support must be used. In the future, this will be part of the regular openshift-install binary.
```

> Additionally, nmstate needs to be installed and Network Manager should have a minimum version of 1.30. This will also be included directly in the agent subcommand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, NMState needs to be installed and NetworkManager should have a minimum version of 1.30. In the future, this will also be included directly in the agent subcommand.
```

#### **Cluster manifests**

> The input needed for this process is a list of yaml files that use similar content to what is used nowadays for ZTP and that need to be put in a directory named `cluster-manifests`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The input needed for this process is a list of yaml files that use similar content to what is used nowadays for ZTP and that needs to be put in a directory named `cluster-manifests`.
```

> As such, people familiar with this workflow wont have any issue in creating the following files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As such, people familiar with this workflow shouldn't have any issues in creating the following files:
```

- agent-cluster-install.yaml
- cluster-deployment.yaml
- cluster-image-set.yaml
- infraenv.yaml
- nmstateconfig.yaml
- pull-secret.yaml

> Alternatively, for people using aicli to interact with AI SAAS API (or onprem), the following command can be used to generate the needed files from a parameter file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, for people using aicli to interact with AI SAAS API (or on-prem), the following command can be used to generate the needed files from a parameter file:
```

```
aicli create cluster-manifests --pf bili.yml bili
```

> The ability to generate those files on the fly from a valid install config is planned to be added during 4.12 development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability to generate those files on the fly from a valid install config by the openshift-install binary is planned to be added during 4.12 development.
```

Note that it's mandatory to include a nmstateconfig.yaml file with at least one entry with static ip.

> This is used by the installer to locate which node is to be used as *node0*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is used by the installer to locate which node is to be used as *node0* (Node 0 runs the AI API).
```

Nodes also need to get proper fqdns (localhost beeing forbidden), for instance by mean of reverse DNS entries.

### **Deployment**

> Once we have created the cluster-manifests, The ISO is generated with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have created the cluster-manifests, the ISO is generated with the following command:
```

```
openshift-install agent create image --log-level=debug
```

It is then up to the user to plug the iso to the target nodes.

Additionally, credentials are generated and stored in `auth/kubeconfig`

### **Monitoring progress**

> During the process, the assisted service is available in node0 and remains there until this node gets installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the process, the assisted service is available in node0 and remains there until this node gets installed.
```

> To monitor progress, we can use API calls, for instance using aicli such as in the following snippet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor progress, we can use API calls, for instance using aicli such as in the following snippet:
```

```
export AI_URL=192.168.128.11:8090
aicli wait cluster $cluster
```

> Note that when node0 gets installed, the service is no longer available and remainder of the install needs to use typical oc commands (for instance oc get clusterversion)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that when node0 gets installed, the service is no longer available and the remainder of the install needs to use typical oc commands (for instance oc get clusterversion).
```

> An `agent wait-for bootstrap-complete/install-complete` is to be added for MVP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `agent wait-for bootstrap-complete/install-complete` is to be added for MVP.
```
